---
title: "Week 01-1: Introduction"
date: 2022-01-01T14:40:02-08:00
draft: false
---

*The first week primarily acts as an adjustment period to get used to the class structure, Java syntax, and your preferred coding environment.*

### Logistics

 - Labs have begun! Register for a CS61B Unix account via the [EECS Instructional WebAcct system](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/webacct).

 - Lectures will be recorded. Check the bCourses Media Gallery page to stream them!

### Discussing "Hello, world!"

Normally, if we want to print something to the console in Python, we would write something like the following:

```python
print("Hello, world!")
```

The nice thing about Python's syntax is that it is quite intuitive. Because it is, by nature, an interpreted scripting language, commands like `print` can be run in a top-down order. Let's take a look at the equivalent in Java:

```java
/**
 * MyFancyApp implements a simple application to print
 * "Hello, world!" to the standard console output.
 */
public class MyFancyApp // <-- Class Definition
{
    public static void main(String[] args) // <-- Function Definition
    {
        System.out.println("Hello, world!");
    }
}
```

Well, it is a little more complicated here. Let's pick it apart!

##### Comments

**Comments** can start with `//` and go at the end of a line (equivalent to `#` in Python), or **can span multiple lines** when bracketed using `/*` and `*/`.

**Documentation comments** start with `/**`, and work the same way as other comments. However, many editors interpret them as providing useful documentation for anything following them. **These are required per our style checks**, so it is a good idea to get comfortable with using them.

##### Classes

Every **function** and **variable** in Java is **contained within some sort of class**.

Every **class** belongs to a **package**. In our example, the `MyFancyApp` class belongs to the **anonymous package** since it hasn't explicitly been assigned to a particular package.

Example:

```java
/** Example class defined in the anonymous package */
public class ExampleClass
{
    /* Valid Function Definition */
    void validFunction();
}
/* Invalid Function Definition (outside of class) */
void invalidFunction();
```

{{% alert "info" %}}
Named packages will be covered later in the course.
{{% /alert %}}

##### Methods (Functions)

Unlike Python, Java functions must specify the **types** for the function's **parameters** and its **returned values**.

```java
void main(String[] args)
```

The `void` keyword can be used to specify that there are **no possible values returned**. By this definition, in our example, the **`main`** function **returns nothing**. The `String` type can be thought of as being similar to the `str` type in Python. The `[]` trailing afterwards means ***array of***.

{{% alert "warning" %}}
Be careful relating Java arrays to Python lists, as they aren't exactly alike. Unlike Python, which is a dynamically typed language, Java arrays are limited to having a **fixed size** and are **typed**, meaning you must specify the exact size of the array beforehand, and cannot store mixed datatypes in a single array. 
{{% /alert %}}

Using these definitions, we can deduce that our `main` function within the original `MyFancyApp` class takes in an array of strings and returns nothing.

But what is the deal with the fact that the function is named `main`? Why not `myFancyMethod`, or `sayHelloToTheWorld`? Well, these would be valid function names, but the name `main` has a **special meaning** within Java. The `main` method is what gets called whenever someone **runs the Java program**.

##### Selection

Selection works in a similar manner to Python:
> `a.b` means "something named `b` that lies within (or applies to) the object computed by `a`."

{{% alert "info" %}}
This may sound like a ton of jargain, but think of `a` as being a class named `Square`, and `b` representing a method named `getArea` (giving us something like `Square.getArea`). In this case, `getArea` lies within the object (a `Square`) computed by `a`.
{{% /alert %}}

Using this knowledge, `System.out` means "the variable called `out` that is found inside of the class named `System`."

For the `println` method, it works the exact same way: "the method named `println` that applies to the object referenced by the evaluated value of `System.out`."

##### Access

Every entity in Java has some sort of **access permission** given to it, which indicates which pieces of code can access it. This access is specified through the use of **modifiers**, like `public`. Each modifier specifies a different level of access for other parts of your code. `public` provides visibility to all classes everywhere, including through inheritance through subclasses. `private` specifies that the member can only be accessed from within its own class. An overview of the different access levels is provided in the table below:

| Access Modifier | Visibility outside of the class                                            |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `public`        | Full visibility                                                            |
| `protected`     | Classes in the package and subclasses either inside or outside the package |
| No modifier     | Classes in the package                                                     |
| `private`       | None                                                                       |

##### Static Members

The `static` keyword specifies that a member is assigned at the class level rather than at the instance level. This would be comparable to the `@classmethod` decorator in Python.

### Key Takeaways

- In this class, you are learning *programming* itself as a fundamental concept rather than learning a specific language or program. These are tools that can be used regardless of the language or platform you are using. In this class, Java is used primarily as a way to convey these ideas in an intuitive way.

- When using comments, make sure to use the **multiline version (`/*` or `/**`)**. Grading will be based on the absence of inline (`//`) comments.

- All parameters and methods must have a **type** associated with them. If there is nothing expected to be returned, use the **`void`** keyword (i.e. `public static void main()`).

- Every **function** belongs to a **class** (in which it becomes a method), and every **class** belongs to a **package**. If a package is not explicitly assigned, the class is associated with the **anonymous package**.

- All Java entities have **access permissions**, whether implied or explicit. Keywords to change access permissions include **`public`, `protected`, and `private`**.
