---
title: "Week 03-1: Unit Testing / Developing a Sort"
date: 2022-01-31T13:05:56-08:00
draft: false
---

## Sorting an Array

Let's go through a workflow of development with a program that sorts words.

### The Problem

Print out the command-line arguments in lexicographic order:

```sh
% java sort the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog
brown dog fox jumped lazy over quick the the
```

### The Plan

```java
public class Sort {
    /** Sort lexicographically */
    public static void main(String[] words) {
        sort(words, 0, words.length - 1);
        print(words);
    }

    static void sort(String[] A, int L, int U) { /* "TOMORROW" */ }

    static void print(String[] A) {}
}
```



## How do we know that it works?

- **Unit testing** - testing of individual **units (methods)** within a program, rather than the whole program.

- **Module testing** - Testing of classes or other groupings of methods and data.

- **System testing** - Testing of a program's entire functionality.

- **Integration testing** - Tests that modules work correctly together

- **Regression testing** - Ensures that fixes, enhancements, or other changes have not introduced faults (regressions)

***We will mainly be using the JUnit tool for unit testing***

## Test-Driven Development

A popular development practice, Test-Driven Development (or TDD), involves **writing the tests first, then implementing your logic to pass the tests**.

- Implement one unit at a time, run the tests, fix and refactor until it works.

- This is only lightly going to be pushed in this course, but it is **really** good practice for real-world programming.

## Let's test our `sort` program

- Pretty easy: Give a bunch of arrays to sort, then make sure they are each sorted properly.

- We must make sure that we cover all cases:
    - Corner (edge) cases: empty arrays, one element, all elements the same, etc.

    - Representative (middle) cases: elements reversed, elements in order, one pair of elements reversed

**Coverage** is a measure of how much of your program is actually being tested. You should strive to get as much coverage as you can in your code. If using a TDD approach, you would almost always be near 100% coverage.

### JUnit

- We use the `@Test` annotation on a method, which tells JUnit to use that method as a test call. This method would contain **assertions**, which perform the validations of your program's output.

An example of an assertion would be similar to the following:

```java
assertArrayEquals("Empty array failed", 
                  new String[] {}, 
                  runSort(new String[] { }, 0, -1));
```
